# The Enigma Machine
The Enigma Machine was a cipher device invented by Arthur Scherbius at the end of World War I. It saw commercial use in the 1920s for businesses, before being adapted for World War II by the German military. 
The machine resembled a typewriter and had several parts including a plugboard, rotors, and a reflector, along with circuits to link all of them to make the whole thing work. Each keypress sent an electrical signal through the circuits that modified an input letter into a completely different output letter, which was shown on the lampboard. Decrypting the engima machine was extremely difficult without knowing the specific rotor or plugboard combinations, and takes a notable amount of time even in the modern day. 
The civilian machine did not contain the plugboard, which swapped up to 10 pairs of letters using cables. It typically only used three rotors, while the military version allowed a selection of three rotors from up to five, and did not allow for changing the order of the rotors.
The enigma code was eventually broken through the Bombe machine. By simulating 

## The Encryption
The encryption works by the program first requesting plugboard, rotor order, and rotor combinations from the user. The user then places their input string. Each letter is passed through the plugboard, such that if it belongs to one of the up to ten pairs of letters that can be connected, it is replaced by the corresponding letter. 

## The Decryption
The decryption works by either taking in a specific command line input for the rotor order, or trying all 60 permutations of the rotor order. In each case, the program attempts to brute force all 26^3 starting positions to create potential decrypted strings. The program checks through an English wordlist to determine how many of the words actually contain real words, along with filtering out strings with two consonants in a row outside of the valid words, as it's unlikely to occur in the English language. The top matches are listed for the user.

## The Visualization
The visualizer works by allowing users to see the individual steps of the enigma encryption process. We took an intermediary step between the military and civilian machines by neglecting to include the plugboard, while still introducing the concept of additional rotors and rotor swappage. We recreate the lampboard through the 26 letters on top, such that when an input letter is taken in, the output letter lights up on the lampboard. By clicking TAB, we can toggle the appearance of the individual steps in the process, with the leftmost letter belonging to the input. The following three letters describe how the letter is passed forward through the rotors. The fifth letter describes the reflector, and the following three describe how the letter is passed backward through the rotors. Each input letter increments the rightmost rotor by one, and upon reaching a specific rollover letter, increments the center rotor. The center rotor likewise has its own rollover letter that, upon reaching it, allows it to increment the leftmost letter. The user can click on the specific rotor numbers to change them, using the UP and DOWN arrow keys. They can click on the specific rotor combinations to adjust them manually as well.